README.md, before:

# Mama Khichuri Restaurant App

This is a Spring Boot application for a fictional Bangladeshi restaurant named "Mama Khichuri". The application provides a basic set of RESTful API endpoints to Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD) food items in the restaurant's menu. 

## API Endpoints

The application defines the following RESTful endpoints:

- GET /foodItems: Fetch all food items in the restaurant.
- GET /foodItems/{id}: Fetch a specific food item by its ID.
- POST /foodItems: Add a new food item to the restaurant menu.
- PUT /foodItems/{id}: Update the details of an existing food item.
- DELETE /foodItems/{id}: Remove a food item from the restaurant menu.

For POST and PUT operations, the request body must be a JSON object that includes name and type fields for the food item. Here is a sample request body:

```json
{
    "name": "Bhuna Khichuri",
    "type": "Main Course"
}
```

This repository is organized in different branches, each demonstrating a different type of data storage mechanism:

- **`no-db` branch:** This branch shows the basic in-memory data structure implementation. It doesn't involve any database, and uses simple Java collections for data storage.
  
- **`h2` branch:** This branch involves usage of Spring Data JPA for object relational mapping, and uses an in-memory H2 database for persistent data storage.

- **`mysql` branch:** This branch, like `h2`, uses Spring Data JPA for object relational mapping, but uses an external MySQL database for persistent data storage. This is closer to a real-world scenario.

You can switch between these branches to understand the differences in the implementation and to choose the best one according to your needs. Here's how to switch between branches:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.

2. Navigate to the project directory (where the `pom.xml` file resides) in the terminal or command line.

3. Use the command `git checkout <branch-name>` to switch between branches (replace `<branch-name>` with `no-db`, `h2`, or `mysql`).

For instance, to switch to the `h2` branch, you would use:

```bash
git checkout h2
```

**Prerequisite:** Java 8 or later and Maven installed on your system.

## Building and Running the Application

After switching to your desired branch, follow these steps:

1. Run the command `mvn clean install` to build the application. Maven will download all necessary dependencies and perform tests.

2. Once built, you can run the application using the command `mvn spring-boot:run`.

The application should now be running and listening for HTTP requests on port 8080 on your localhost.

## Contributing

Issues/PRs are welcome.

Commit message:

Update to design pattern info.

README.md, after:

# Mama Khichuri Restaurant App

This is a Spring Boot application for a fictional Bangladeshi restaurant named "Mama Khichuri". The application provides a basic set of RESTful API endpoints to Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD) food items in the restaurant's menu. 

## Design Pattern

The design of this application can be described using a few design patterns:

1. **Model-View-Controller (MVC)**: While we don't have a "View" in the traditional sense (as it's a REST API), the overall design still somewhat follows the MVC pattern. `FoodItem` serves as the Model, `FoodItemController` serves as the Controller, and the "View" would be how the client interprets and displays the data.

2. **Repository Pattern**: The `FoodItemRepository` class embodies the Repository pattern. It's a layer of abstraction between the data access (database operations) and business logic layers of the application. This pattern makes the data access operations more testable and maintainable. 

3. **Singleton Pattern**: The `SpringBootApplication` annotation in the `MamaKhichuriApplication` class ensures that the application context is a Singleton. In Spring, the application context is a shared resource where beans (like controllers, services, and repositories) are stored and managed. By default, Spring beans are singletons.

4. **Dependency Injection (DI)**: While not a design pattern in the traditional sense, DI is a critical part of the design of Spring applications. It's not explicitly shown in your code, but Spring uses DI under the hood to manage and inject dependencies, such as repositories into controllers.

It's worth noting that Spring Boot and similar frameworks often encapsulate and manage many of the details of these patterns, so they're not always immediately obvious in the code. The patterns are still there, however, providing structure and guiding the design of your application.

## API Endpoints

The application defines the following RESTful endpoints:

- GET /foodItems: Fetch all food items in the restaurant.
- GET /foodItems/{id}: Fetch a specific food item by its ID.
- POST /foodItems: Add a new food item to the restaurant menu.
- PUT /foodItems/{id}: Update the details of an existing food item.
- DELETE /foodItems/{id}: Remove a food item from the restaurant menu.

For POST and PUT operations, the request body must be a JSON object that includes name and type fields for the food item. Here is a sample request body:

```json
{
    "name": "Bhuna Khichuri",
    "type": "Main Course"
}
```

This repository is organized in different branches, each demonstrating a different type of data storage mechanism:

- **`no-db` branch:** This branch shows the basic in-memory data structure implementation. It doesn't involve any database, and uses simple Java collections for data storage.
  
- **`h2` branch:** This branch involves usage of Spring Data JPA for object relational mapping, and uses an in-memory H2 database for persistent data storage.

- **`mysql` branch:** This branch, like `h2`, uses Spring Data JPA for object relational mapping, but uses an external MySQL database for persistent data storage. This is closer to a real-world scenario.

You can switch between these branches to understand the differences in the implementation and to choose the best one according to your needs. Here's how to switch between branches:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.

2. Navigate to the project directory (where the `pom.xml` file resides) in the terminal or command line.

3. Use the command `git checkout <branch-name>` to switch between branches (replace `<branch-name>` with `no-db`, `h2`, or `mysql`).

For instance, to switch to the `h2` branch, you would use:

```bash
git checkout h2
```

**Prerequisite:** Java 8 or later and Maven installed on your system.

## Building and Running the Application

After switching to your desired branch, follow these steps:

1. Run the command `mvn clean install` to build the application. Maven will download all necessary dependencies and perform tests.

2. Once built, you can run the application using the command `mvn spring-boot:run`.

The application should now be running and listening for HTTP requests on port 8080 on your localhost.

## Contributing

Issues/PRs are welcome.
